---
layout: post
title:  "The UK (2010-2022), Part 1: Ingress"
date:   2022-08-23 21:10:37 +0000
categories: general, canada, uk
---

## Prologue
2010 began where 2022 would end: Canada. I had arrived in Toronto from Kathmandu, fully bearded, in shorts, into the dead of the Canadian winter to spend Christmas in Toronto and meet my (now) in-laws for the first time. That story is not this story, so from there I moved on to New York for a couple of days, and then bought what I remember as being a very reasonably priced flight to Moscow. The train from Moscow took me to St. Petersburg - where it was colder than anything I've ever experienced - and on from there to Helsinki (and also Turku where I stayed with friends). 

In Helsinki a guy in a shopping mall gave me a five minute sales pitch in English before, at the very end, switching to Finnish, to which I thought, wait, you thought I was Finnish this whole time and you did this thing in English? Sorry my friend, I don't live in this country (or really any specific country currently) and nor do I have any money. He was disappointed. 

Helsinki turned out to be the end of a very long road, I couldn't hack it any more so I called it quits and flew back to Dublin. I think at this point it's around March. From March into the summer I didn't really do very much at all. By now, W and I had decided to live in the UK. Her teaching degree was valid, she was young enough to get a two-year youth mobility visa, they spoke English there and thanks to various historical atrocities, it was a place that I could just turn up to and stay as long as I wanted.

In August 2010, I flew to Stansted - London's worst airport* - and started looking for a place to live. Lucky for me, I had fancy connections, and spent the initial couple of nights in the spare room of famous author and family friend Pat McCabe. Towards the end of my stay, he thought I had left a day before I actually had, and so wandered nude into the living room. I had lined up a handful of flat viewings, but the first thing was a flatmating even in a pub somewhere I no longer remember. There I had arranged to meet Jon and Nicola, who were sharing a place in Lewisham that had a vacancy. The event itself was mostly lots of desperate people looking for somewhere to live - like me - so I bailed out and went back to look at the Lewisham place. It was lovely, basement level, Christmas lights, common area (which apparently is quite rare now), big table, OK kitchen, a garden, no mold in 2010 (later was a different story). I decided immediately to live there, but had to spend a little time justifying it, so I told them I'd have to check out a couple of other places and get back to them.

I don't remember many of the other places. One was on the very busy Old Kent Road. Another was more like a hotel, anonymous doors in what I (inaccurately, probably) recall going up five or six stories. At least one was an irredeemable dump. I went out for dinner with my friend Jerry, who lived in London at the time, and texted (emailed?) saying I'd like to live in Lewisham. 

* I don't think I've ever been to Luton, but all the world leaders fly into Stansted and they desperately want the general public to stay away. 